What This Project Does — In Simple Words
Imagine you have thousands of course advertisement sentences and you want to find out which course names are mentioned in each sentence — without reading them one by one manually.
This project teaches a computer to do that job automatically.
You show it examples like:

"Learn Python, Data Science and Web Development at The Easylearn Academy."

After seeing enough examples, the computer learns the pattern — and can now read any new sentence and instantly pull out the course names on its own.

One Line Summary

An intelligent text scanner that automatically finds and extracts course names from any sentence — without any manual work.


Where This Can Be Used
Education Platforms — Automatically tag and categorize courses from thousands of course descriptions on platforms like Udemy, Coursera, or any academy website.
Job Portals — Read job descriptions and extract required skills and courses automatically. For example, scanning "Must know Python, SQL and Power BI" and pulling out those three skills instantly.
Chatbots — A student types "I want to learn React and Node.js" — the chatbot instantly understands which courses they are asking about and gives a direct reply.
Resume Screening — Scan thousands of resumes and extract what courses or certifications each candidate has completed, saving hours of manual reading.
Search Engines — When a student searches on an academy website, the engine uses extracted course names to return better, more relevant results.
Data Analytics — A business wants to know which courses are most talked about in student feedback or reviews — this model scans all reviews and counts course mentions automatically.
WhatsApp / Email Bots — A student sends a message like "Do you have a Django and Flutter course?" — the system automatically understands the two course names and checks availability without any human involvement.

The Bigger Picture
This project is a small but real example of Natural Language Processing (NLP) — the technology behind Google Search, Siri, ChatGPT, and every smart text tool you use daily. You built a tiny version of that same technology, trained specifically for your own use case, using your own data.


Create create_data.py 
     Writes 25 sentences with course names marked (start position, end position, label) and saves them to training_data.json.
python convert_data.py
    Reads that JSON and converts it into spaCy's binary format (train.spacy + dev.spacy) which the training engine can actually read.

python -m spacy train config.cfg --output ./output --paths.train ./train.spacy --paths.dev ./dev.spacy
    
    Generates config.cfg (the settings file) and runs the training — spaCy reads your examples repeatedly until it learns the pattern of what a course name looks like.
    
python test_model.py 
     Loads the trained model and runs it on brand new sentences to check if it correctly finds course names it has never seen before.
python save_model.py
    Saves the trained model to a permanent folder (my_course_extractor/) so 
python use_model.py